# Final Project Self-Assessment

## Final Project

The Blades of Glory team chose as our topic to investigate whether or not GDP, population, athlete count, and whether or not the country was the host country could be used to predict the number of medals won at any given Olympic Games.  In doing that we collected some CSV data from Kaggle and other sources (see [ReadMe](https://github.com/olympics2022/olympic_medal_analysis#readme) for full details) as well as using the MS Excel native web scraping tool to get information off of Wikipedia.  From there they were assembled into CSVs to be imported into a PostGres database where we used SQL to merge all the files into one table for export into python.  Within python, we performed single-variable linear regressions on each of the non-boolean variables (i.e. GDP per capita, population, and athlete count) individually to see if any one variable could be used by itself.  From there we did a multiple linear regression with the addition of the boolean variable of "host" to create a better model for preditions.  Finally we used machine learning to refine the prediction with a multiple linear regression from which we created a prediction which we could map on Tableau in an interactive fashion.

## Team and Individual Contributions

The team consisted of Eric Anthony, Ben Bratrud, Cher Hinton, and myself.  The project was divided into largely five parts:  Data acquisition, data clean-up, database set-up and SQL, Regressions & Machine Learning, and visualization.  Eric Anthony and myself acquired the data and the entire team split up the task of cleaning up the individual CSVs to be imported into PostGres.  I was in charge of the database set-up and the SQL scripting.  Eric Anthony and Ben Bratrud took up the task of scripting the regressions and machine learning (splitting into Summer and Winter respectively), and Cher Hinton over-saw the visualizations (both the aborted Javascript/Leaflet mapping and the Tableau visualization).

All team members performed their duties diligently, compitently and in a timely manner.  We attempted to create a mapping visualization in Javascript and Leaflet and Cher volunteered for that task.  We thought it would be easier and straightforward but as it turned out we could not make it work even with extensive assistance from Cher's tutor and TA's from the course.  While it was unsuccessful, I commend Cher for her time and efforts in trying to get it to work even up until the last minute.  I have no doubt that given more time she would have been able to resolve the issues.  Regardless, she was able to provide a Tableau visualization that fit the needs of the project.  In addition, I was tasked with all the write-ups (ReadMe's) for the project.
